## Individual Capstone Assessment
### Maddie Eckhart
---
My senior design project will be creating a screen reader for people with vision disabilities. It will use artificial intelligence and machine learning to navigate web pages efficiently and with ease. Current screen readers go through the website from top to bottom without any regard to the layout. The screen reader we plan to build will use machine learning to find the most important thing first, so it is easier to navigate and get information quickly. We will develop a product that puts the user first and seriously considers what will be useful and what is unnecessary.  

My co-op experiences are centered around user design and mobile development. Accessibility is a major part of mobile development because it can be a huge draw if disabled users can use it effectively just like sighted users. My first co-op was at Giant Sparkplug LLC in Dayton, Ohio as the mobile intern. While I was in Dayton, I learned the fundamentals of mobile development and started my journey as a developer. My second co-op was at Ulta Beauty in Chicago, Illinois as the Mobile Development Intern. My third, fourth, and fifth co-op were all with Kroger Digital as the iOS Development Intern.  

While working at Kroger Digital, I learned the basics of user interface design, user experience design, and accessibility. Mobile screen readers can be especially finicky, so I spent a lot of time learning about how a screen reader moves through a screen and how it navigates. I also learned that the volume, home, and power buttons are used for multiple purposes, and all those functions change with different phone models. Kroger’s mobile app has high accessibility standards and every project I worked on was required to have the screen’s accessibility up to date. I think my knowledge of mobile screen readers and how they move through apps will help us develop a better and more efficient product for the vision impaired.  

I would like to reinvent something that already exists, but better and more useful to the user. My motivation to start this project revolves around how finicky screen readers are right now and that they don’t convey information quick enough. I tried to close my eyes and navigate the home screen of uc.edu and I could not figure out how anything was set up! I am excited to start this project and be a part of something that could change someone’s daily life and the way disabled people use the internet. I want users to feel more empowered, no matter what makes them different. A new screen reader could change how accessibility is approached and executed.  

The preliminary project approach will use artificial intelligence and machine learning to look at a website and first determine what the layout is. Then we will find the most important headline, menu, or entry to read off according to the user’s specifications. The expected result is a working screen reader that people could download off of the internet. I would like to have an actual vision impaired person to test out the screen reader as well as an accessibility specialist. Our success will be based off of how easy it is for a blind user to use and how professional and encompassing it is from the perspective of a specialist.
