## Individual Capstone
### Sean Hearne

Our senior design project is creating a screen reader designed to better represent how a user without disabilities would use a site. Our inspiration came from seeing how most screen readers often will read out each part of a website, often spending more time on unimportant information that the users does not need. We plan on providing a screen reader that isolate import information from the site to help a user with vision disabilities better understand and navigate the website faster and more efficiently.  We will accomplish this by creating a screen reader which will break down the website using machine learning to pull important information that the user actual wants. With a focus on machine learning we have the ability to strengthen our product as it continuous updates and becomes better at pulling the information our user needs. Our project combines multiple tools I have been learning from both my co-op and classes allowing me to truly push myself to combine the lessons I have learned into 1 project.

My own college experience has prepared me for this project first with the group and project training I learned from software engineering (EECE 3093C). This classes focus on how project team should be run and how the development cycle for a project should procced has giving me an understand of how to properly set up our team for success. In more recent years, my classes Deep learning (CS 5173) and AI Principles and Applications (CS 4033) have helped give me experience to build my own ML system for our screen reader. AI gave me a base for how machines think and how to create simple neural networks. Machine learning gave me a more in-depth understand of how these systems can be built in PyTorch which will be main experience I lean on when creating the ML for our project. 

My co-op experience gave me a much more hands on approach to handling large projects. My first co-op, a QA position at London Computer Systems, gave me and understanding of how-to better debug and find the isolate problems. My software development position at Etegent Technology gave me much better understand of the actual technical work required to complete a project. These projects I worked on gave me a much stronger understand of programming languages and how to find the answers to errors through my own research. These skills will help me through the project as I will be required to complete. My job as a software developer intern at Hyosung America, however, gave me the most experience to prepare me for this project. I worked both solo and as a team on a project involving months of work with massive milestones and deadlines. I was responsible for developing entire microservices by myself and then required implement them together on both a MongoDB and Amazon SQS. I worked with both routing our microservices and working with other companies’ API’s to create core bank integrations which we will have to use to develop our REST API.

I am excited about this project because I strongly believe that as technology progress faster and faster, we cannot leave anyone behind or unable to use what we have created. It is essential that people create pathways for people with disability to experience and enjoy their creation. Most developers spend too little time creating proper accessibility features and can leave users with disability in the dust. Current screen readers now often focus on unimportant information and can get bogged down explaining unimportant parts of the website. We want to create one that create a truly enjoyable experience for vision impair users. I want to bring my experience with machine learning to a project that will actual help someone experience things we take for granted. 
My approach to this project that is truly about improving upon something that already exist, is to first research what they already do well. Making sure to learn lessons from already existing screen readers will help us isolate how we can make a truly better product. Focusing on the over user experience will separate our product from other. Our goal is to create a truly better website experience for users with vision disabilities by providing a focused, and efficient flow of information. To know if we have been successful, we need to prove that our screen reader is more help than another commonly used screen reader when used by some with a seeing impairment. Since my focus is on the machine learning aspect of the product, I will feel that I have done a good job if we our model can isolate the important sections of a website and its contents consistently. 
