# Self Assessment

## William Cupp

### Part A

Our senior design project was designed such that the work could be compartmentalized into separate components.  Each member was then responsible for one of the components.  I was responsible for the machine learning component of our project.  I researched, designed, and developed a machine learning model that fit our needs.  I also lead the effort to create a dataset for training and testing the model.  In my assessment from last fall, I identified that the concepts I learned in software engineering, parallel computing, networking classes would be important.  The concepts I learned in my machine learning class also proved to be very important.  My experience working on software projects in small teams during co-ops also contributed to my success.

The concepts learned in the software engineering class were directly applicable to the way we structured and organized our project.  Concepts from parallel computing were very useful for the development of the dataset.  I had to process many files and do many computations per file.  The best way to optimize the program that processed the files and created the dataset was to parallelize it.  And, of course, the concepts learned in my machine learning class were directly applicable to the work I did when researching and developing our model.  I successfully assembled a dataset and developed a machine learning model for our project.  The obstacles I encountered during this work were technical challenges, such as finding out the best data representation for the dataset.  Another example of an obstacle I encountered was figuring out how to deploy a machine learning model to a cloud service for integration into our project.  The iteration cycle of working with the cloud is slower than working locally and the debugging tools available in cloud contexts are inferior to local debugging tools.  These two issues lead to frustrations and challenges that were eventually overcome with patience and diligence.

### Part B

As a group, we accomplished the initial goal we set for ourselves: to create a web-based screen reader that uses machine learning.  We built a front-end component in the form of a WebExtension.  We built a backend API, we assembled a dataset, and we deployed a machine learning model.  I learned that no matter which part of the project each group member was assigned to, there was always a need for someone to help on another part.  No matter how much we tried to simplify responsibilities through compartmentalization, there always remained some complexity.  No single member only works on what they were assigned to work on.  And this is a good thing.  Having another person helping with the development of a component helps catch more issues earlier.

I think what made our teamwork successful was clear assignments of each part of the project to members of the team.  These assignments made it clear who was responsible for the development of each component and its completion.  What hindered successful teamwork was working remotely.  Working remotely was a benefit when we were able to work on the project asynchronously.  But, when we needed to have short meetings to discuss different parts of our project, it became difficult to find time when everyone was available.  What solved this, was scheduling blocks of time, sometimes hours at a time, very far in advance so that each member could properly schedule for it.  These long meetings served as dedicated working times when everybody was working on the project at the same time and were readily available to answer each other’s questions.

My effort on our project is similar to all of the other members.  We all worked hard and put is much effort to this project.  Sean deserves recognition because he developed part of our project with tools and cloud service that he was not previously familiar with and had to learn quickly.  Isiah deserves recognition for bringing much experience with web technologies to our team.  And Maddie deserves recognition for taking on the role of a de facto leader within our group.
