# Individual Capstone Assessment

## William Cupp

The senior design project that my team is working on is a screen reader for individuals with visual impairments that utilizes machine learning to better present the content and information on a webpage.  Many websites do not follow best practices when implementing accessibility features and many websites do not implement accessibility features at all.  Our screen reader will use machine learning to find the content on the webpages that are not accessible and communicate the information to the user in a presentable way, an issue that current screen readers struggle with.  From an academic perspective, this project is a culmination of the knowledge and skills that I have developed during my time at the University of Cincinnati.  Every class has had an impact on my technical ability and skill and through this project, I will be able to demonstrate that.  My co-op experiences have also helped develop my technical abilities and technical knowledge, and what I have learned during my co-op experiences will also be important in the development of this project.

There are several classes that taught me concepts that will be core to the development of the project.  The concepts I learned in EECE 3093, Software Engineering, and in CS 5128, Large Scale Software Engineering, will be very important.  My team will be working together using the organizational concepts to organize how we work on our project.  We will also be applying the technical concepts to our project so that we maintain a clean and clear codebase.  Doing so will allow us to iterate quickly on the project.  I will also be using the concepts I learned from CS 5168, Parallel Computing, in order to find areas in the project that may benefit from a parallel approach.  CS 4065, Computer Networking, also taught me concepts that may be important for this project.  Each class core to the computer science curriculum has taught me concepts that I will be using during the design and development of this project.

Along with the concepts that I learned from my classes; I will also be using the concepts that I learned during my co-op experiences.  I worked on small sized teams during my co-op experiences.  The teams ranged from 3 people to 8 people.  The teams worked in an agile environment and what I learned about that way of working will be useful when working with my classmates on the senior design project.  During my co-op experiences, I was able to work on a variety of projects.  I worked on a large monolithic application, I worked on a mobile app, and I worked on a data pipeline that prepared data for analysis by data science algorithms.  The range of projects I have worked on has helped me develop a versatility in my technical software development skill that will help me quickly adapt to my team’s project.  My team is still unsure of what form the software for our project will be.  It may be a standalone application that runs along side a web browser or it may be a browser extension that communicates with a backend service for ML services, but whatever it ends up being I will be able to adapt quickly thanks to my experience during my co-op semesters.

I am motivated by this project because I believe that technology should be available to all people.  For many organizations that develop technology, accessibility is an afterthought.  Many websites do not implement proper accessibility features.  In consequence, the users who rely on those accessibility features have a more difficult time with understanding what is on the webpage because their screen reader is not picking out the important parts of the webpage.  The issue of the lack of accessible websites is problem that has a two-front solution.  One front is the side of the webpage developers.  Developers need to be educated on proper accessibility feature implementation.  The other front is the side of the webpage consumer.  In the case of our project, that consumer is a screen reader.  Many screen readers are not smart.  They read what is on the webpage.  But as previously discussed, not all websites are accessible, so the output of the screen reader may be incomprehensible in that case.  This motivates me to find a solution.  And the prospect of using ML to create a smarter screen reader is exciting.

I will approach this problem first by evaluating existing screen readers.  My evaluating existing screen readers, we can guide the implementation of our project.  This gives us the ability to build upon proven implementation details, while also developing new smart features that utilize ML.  I expect that my team will be successful in the developing our project.  We will set goals and we will accomplish them, but that can only happen if are smart about our work.  By setting goals early, we will be able to recognize our progress and have a clear finish line to work towards.  I will be self-evaluating my contribution to the project by how much I contribute to the regular meetings that my team has, how much work I do to prepare for those meetings, how much I contribute to the design of the project, and how much I contribute to the implementation.