# Inital Assessments

## William Cupp

The senior design project that my team is working on is a screen reader for individuals with visual impairments that utilizes machine learning to better present the content and information on a webpage.  Many websites do not follow best practices when implementing accessibility features and many websites do not implement accessibility features at all.  Our screen reader will use machine learning to find the content on the webpages that are not accessible and communicate the information to the user in a presentable way, an issue that current screen readers struggle with.  From an academic perspective, this project is a culmination of the knowledge and skills that I have developed during my time at the University of Cincinnati.  Every class has had an impact on my technical ability and skill and through this project, I will be able to demonstrate that.  My co-op experiences have also helped develop my technical abilities and technical knowledge, and what I have learned during my co-op experiences will also be important in the development of this project.

There are several classes that taught me concepts that will be core to the development of the project.  The concepts I learned in EECE 3093, Software Engineering, and in CS 5128, Large Scale Software Engineering, will be very important.  My team will be working together using the organizational concepts to organize how we work on our project.  We will also be applying the technical concepts to our project so that we maintain a clean and clear codebase.  Doing so will allow us to iterate quickly on the project.  I will also be using the concepts I learned from CS 5168, Parallel Computing, in order to find areas in the project that may benefit from a parallel approach.  CS 4065, Computer Networking, also taught me concepts that may be important for this project.  Each class core to the computer science curriculum has taught me concepts that I will be using during the design and development of this project.

Along with the concepts that I learned from my classes; I will also be using the concepts that I learned during my co-op experiences.  I worked on small sized teams during my co-op experiences.  The teams ranged from 3 people to 8 people.  The teams worked in an agile environment and what I learned about that way of working will be useful when working with my classmates on the senior design project.  During my co-op experiences, I was able to work on a variety of projects.  I worked on a large monolithic application, I worked on a mobile app, and I worked on a data pipeline that prepared data for analysis by data science algorithms.  The range of projects I have worked on has helped me develop a versatility in my technical software development skill that will help me quickly adapt to my team’s project.  My team is still unsure of what form the software for our project will be.  It may be a standalone application that runs along side a web browser or it may be a browser extension that communicates with a backend service for ML services, but whatever it ends up being I will be able to adapt quickly thanks to my experience during my co-op semesters.

I am motivated by this project because I believe that technology should be available to all people.  For many organizations that develop technology, accessibility is an afterthought.  Many websites do not implement proper accessibility features.  In consequence, the users who rely on those accessibility features have a more difficult time with understanding what is on the webpage because their screen reader is not picking out the important parts of the webpage.  The issue of the lack of accessible websites is problem that has a two-front solution.  One front is the side of the webpage developers.  Developers need to be educated on proper accessibility feature implementation.  The other front is the side of the webpage consumer.  In the case of our project, that consumer is a screen reader.  Many screen readers are not smart.  They read what is on the webpage.  But as previously discussed, not all websites are accessible, so the output of the screen reader may be incomprehensible in that case.  This motivates me to find a solution.  And the prospect of using ML to create a smarter screen reader is exciting.

I will approach this problem first by evaluating existing screen readers.  My evaluating existing screen readers, we can guide the implementation of our project.  This gives us the ability to build upon proven implementation details, while also developing new smart features that utilize ML.  I expect that my team will be successful in the developing our project.  We will set goals and we will accomplish them, but that can only happen if are smart about our work.  By setting goals early, we will be able to recognize our progress and have a clear finish line to work towards.  I will be self-evaluating my contribution to the project by how much I contribute to the regular meetings that my team has, how much work I do to prepare for those meetings, how much I contribute to the design of the project, and how much I contribute to the implementation.

## Maddie Eckhart

My senior design project will be creating a screen reader for people with vision disabilities. It will use artificial intelligence and machine learning to navigate web pages efficiently and with ease. Current screen readers go through the website from top to bottom without any regard to the layout. The screen reader we plan to build will use machine learning to find the most important thing first, so it is easier to navigate and get information quickly. We will develop a product that puts the user first and seriously considers what will be useful and what is unnecessary.  

My co-op experiences are centered around user design and mobile development. Accessibility is a major part of mobile development because it can be a huge draw if disabled users can use it effectively just like sighted users. My first co-op was at Giant Sparkplug LLC in Dayton, Ohio as the mobile intern. While I was in Dayton, I learned the fundamentals of mobile development and started my journey as a developer. My second co-op was at Ulta Beauty in Chicago, Illinois as the Mobile Development Intern. My third, fourth, and fifth co-op were all with Kroger Digital as the iOS Development Intern.  

While working at Kroger Digital, I learned the basics of user interface design, user experience design, and accessibility. Mobile screen readers can be especially finicky, so I spent a lot of time learning about how a screen reader moves through a screen and how it navigates. I also learned that the volume, home, and power buttons are used for multiple purposes, and all those functions change with different phone models. Kroger’s mobile app has high accessibility standards and every project I worked on was required to have the screen’s accessibility up to date. I think my knowledge of mobile screen readers and how they move through apps will help us develop a better and more efficient product for the vision impaired.  

I would like to reinvent something that already exists, but better and more useful to the user. My motivation to start this project revolves around how finicky screen readers are right now and that they don’t convey information quick enough. I tried to close my eyes and navigate the home screen of uc.edu and I could not figure out how anything was set up! I am excited to start this project and be a part of something that could change someone’s daily life and the way disabled people use the internet. I want users to feel more empowered, no matter what makes them different. A new screen reader could change how accessibility is approached and executed.  

The preliminary project approach will use artificial intelligence and machine learning to look at a website and first determine what the layout is. Then we will find the most important headline, menu, or entry to read off according to the user’s specifications. The expected result is a working screen reader that people could download off of the internet. I would like to have an actual vision impaired person to test out the screen reader as well as an accessibility specialist. Our success will be based off of how easy it is for a blind user to use and how professional and encompassing it is from the perspective of a specialist.

## Sean Hearne

Our senior design project is creating a screen reader designed to better represent how a user without disabilities would use a site. Our inspiration came from seeing how most screen readers often will read out each part of a website, often spending more time on unimportant information that the users do not need. We plan on providing a screen reader that isolate import information from the site to help a user with vision disabilities better understand and navigate the website faster and more efficiently. We will accomplish this by creating a screen reader that will break down the website using machine learning to pull important information that the user actually wants. With a focus on machine learning, we have the ability to strengthen our product as it continuously updates and becomes better at pulling the information our user needs. Our project combines multiple tools I have been learning from both my co-op and classes allowing me to truly push myself to combine the lessons I have learned into 1 project.

My own college experience has prepared me for this project first with the group and project training I learned from software engineering (EECE 3093C). These classes focus on how the project team should be run and how the development cycle for a project should proceed has given me an understanding of how to properly set up our team for success. In more recent years, my classes Deep learning (CS 5173) and AI Principles and Applications (CS 4033) have helped give me the experience to build my own ML system for our screen reader. AI gave me a base for how machines think and how to create simple neural networks. Machine learning gave me a more in-depth understanding of how these systems can be built in PyTorch which will be the main experience I lean on when creating the ML for our project.

My co-op experience gave me a much more hands-on approach to handling large projects. My first co-op, a QA position at London Computer Systems, gave me an understanding of how to better debug and find the isolate problems. My software development position at Etegent Technology gave me a much better understanding of the actual technical work required to complete a project. These projects I worked on gave me a much stronger understanding of programming languages and how to find the answers to errors through my own research. These skills will help me through the project as I will be required to complete it. My job as a software developer intern at Hyosung America, however, gave me the most experience to prepare me for this project. I worked both solo and as a team on a project involving months of work with massive milestones and deadlines. I was responsible for developing entire microservices by myself and then required to implement them together on both MongoDB and Amazon SQS. I worked with both routing our microservices and working with other companies’ APIs to create core bank integrations which we will have to use to develop our REST API.

I am excited about this project because I strongly believe that as technology progress faster and faster, we cannot leave anyone behind or unable to use what we have created. It is essential that people create pathways for people with disabilities to experience and enjoy their creation. Most developers spend too little time creating proper accessibility features and can leave users with disabilities in the dust. Current screen readers now often focus on unimportant information and can get bogged down explaining unimportant parts of the website. We want to create one that creates a truly enjoyable experience for vision-impaired users. I want to bring my experience with machine learning to a project that will actually help someone experience things we take for granted. 

My approach to this project that is truly about improving upon something that already exists, is to first research what they already do well. Making sure to learn lessons from already existing screen readers will help us isolate how we can make a truly better product. Focusing on the over user experience will separate our product from others. Our goal is to create a truly better website experience for users with vision disabilities by providing a focused, and efficient flow of information. To know if we have been successful, we need to prove that our screen reader is more help than another commonly used screen reader when used by some with a seeing impairment. Since my focus is on the machine learning aspect of the product, I will feel that I have done a good job if we our model can isolate the important sections of a website and its contents consistently. 

## Isiah Lloyd
 
Our senior design project is all about making the web more accessible to those with vision problems, also known as a "screen reader". Screen readers take the content that is on screen, and converts it using text to speech and allows the user to navigate without using a mouse. Screen readers on the market today expect websites to be marked up correctly using "ARIA" attributes, to be read in a coherent manner, yet many websites still don't take accessibility seriously. We hope to take matters into our own hands and allow our screen reader to parse websites that weren't designed to be accessible using artificial intelligence/machine learning. Another aspect of the screen reader is the interaction of a user between themselves and the computer. People with vision disabilities have a harder time hitting the button on a web page with a mouse, so the screen reader must find all the intractable content on the website and allow the user to interact using buttons or voice control.
 
My college experience will help guide me on the development of this project. There are plenty of classes I have taken at the University of Cincinnati that will help me develop this project. Most importantly, I think that what I learned in AI: Principles and Applications (CS 4033) will be my foundational experience for this project as it is my first, and only introduction to artificial intelligence. Other courses that will help me in this project are of course Data Structures (2028C) and  Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS 4071). I am also currently taking Cloud Computing (CS 5165) and Requirements Engineering (CS 5217) which I think will help with the backend of this project and the managing of this project. I would also like to mention ACM@UC in this section because that's where I first learned Git and without that, collaboration would have been impossible for this project.  
 
I have had many co-ops during my time at UC. From being in the Strategic Student Program at Siemens PLM Software to being a Software Engineer Intern at Metarouter, all my co-ops had the same thing in common, web development. I believe my years working in the web development field will help me with this project because knowing how a website works from top to bottom is integral to making a AI understand how to describe one. I also think that the experiences at co-op helped tremendously with my soft skills, such as project management and collaboration. These will help with this project because we are the  ones responsible as a group to make sure we are on time with our deliverables. On my own I have also created projects using Web Extensions, I believe this is how we will ingest webpages and send them to our backend for processing.
 
I am excited about this project because accessibility of technology has always been an interest of mine. As more and more of our daily lives are moved online, we are creating more of a divide between people with disabilities being able to live a normal life. Larger companies are also getting more interested in accessibility. For example, Microsoft released the [Xbox Adaptive Controller](https://www.xbox.com/en-US/accessories/controllers/xbox-adaptive-controller), which allows people with physical disabilities to create the controller that fits their own situations and allows them to enjoy video games in comfort. For another example, more companies are getting worried about their accessibility of their websites because a landmark court decision has decided that the Americans with Disabilities Act also includes websites. This means if a website is discrementairy towards a person with disabilities they could be held liable. 
 
My preliminary plan for this project is to first discuss with a group on how they think websites should sound like to people who are blind. I thought of a fun activity of looking at some websites and individually writing up how we think how a screen reader should describe it, then take a popular screen reader such as JAWS and compare how a commercial screen reader sounds compared to how we think it should sound. Then I think we should take those scripts we wrote and try to figure out how we could use a computer to analyze a website and read out a script like that. This will require a good knowledge of the Document Object Model. I expect our results after this project is complete to sound very similar to the scripts we first wrote and also allow a person to interact with the website using their voice or buttons. In order to self-evaluate, I will use the requirements we decide at the beginning of this project and reflect how much I contributed to each of those requirements and if they are complete. 


