# Final Assessments

## Isiah Lloyd

My individual contribution towards our senior design project was development of the web extension, or the part of the application that the user interacts with. Web extensions are built using web technologies like HTML, CSS, and Javascript. I already had experience in these technologies as well as developing web extensions coming into the project so it makes sense for me to take on this part of the project. This allowed me to complete the extension to our planned specification fairly fast, which allowed me to work on “bonus” features that went beyond our original scope, improved our product, and let me learn new things. 

The new main features I was able to add was a keyboard shortcut to activate the extension and a settings page. I had never used the web extension “command” API, which allows you to register a keyboard shortcut with the browser and any use of that shortcut will send an event to your code. I ran into two problems when developing this, one was that I wanted the user to be able to change the keyboard shortcut from within the settings page I built, but that was not allowed as it would be a security concern so the best I could do would directly link to the browser’s keyboard shortcut page. Another problem I ran into was when I was testing the extension on Microsoft Edge. I set the default shortcut combination to be Ctrl+Shift+S (as it was easy to use with one hand and S could stand for speak!). This worked fine on Chrome which I did the majority of my testing but in Edge, it did not work in Edge as there was already a built in tool associated with that shortcut, so I had to change the shortcut. 

I was proud of the settings page I made; it allowed the user to change some setting related to the text to speech engine. A user can change the voice the engine uses, the rate the engine speaks at, and the pitch of the voice all on this page. Now this wasn’t that hard to put together, but what was more interesting to implement was using the storage.sync API, which stores the user’s settings in the cloud. For example, if they login to Chrome on another device, the extension and the settings the user set will automatically be downloaded. 

## Sean Hearne


My responsibility for Better Read was to create the REST API, connect it with both the machine learning side and the chrome extension and help Will Cupp with the Machine Learning. I have had little work on REST APIs in the past and have never built one from scratch so this was a very large learning experience for me. I was able to learn the serverless and AWS lambda framework with the help of Isiah and Will.  Building the REST API gave me a chance to work with some of my previous knowledge I had gain about machine learning as I help Will in working out the best way to process data and create training data to build our model. 

I learned a lot in the process of building the API and increased my understand the most of how to test and debug a server. While most of the code had examples and hints of how to create a python REST API, learning how to properly Isolate bugs. This was one of the more challenging aspects as I have used mostly .net framework with built-in testing functionality in my class and work. I felt very proud of my work especially the code I and Will built together to turn the website DOM data into something the ML code could process. 

## William Cupp

Our senior design project was designed such that the work could be compartmentalized into separate components. Each member was then responsible for one of the components. I was responsible for the machine learning component of our project. I researched, designed, and developed a machine learning model that fit our needs. I also lead the effort to create a dataset for training and testing the model. In my assessment from last fall, I identified that the concepts I learned in software engineering, parallel computing, networking classes would be important. The concepts I learned in my machine learning class also proved to be very important. My experience working on software projects in small teams during co-ops also contributed to my success.

The concepts learned in the software engineering class were directly applicable to the way we structured and organized our project. Concepts from parallel computing were very useful for the development of the dataset. I had to process many files and do many computations per file. The best way to optimize the program that processed the files and created the dataset was to parallelize it. And, of course, the concepts learned in my machine learning class were directly applicable to the work I did when researching and developing our model. I successfully assembled a dataset and developed a machine learning model for our project. The obstacles I encountered during this work were technical challenges, such as finding out the best data representation for the dataset. Another example of an obstacle I encountered was figuring out how to deploy a machine learning model to a cloud service for integration into our project. The iteration cycle of working with the cloud is slower than working locally and the debugging tools available in cloud contexts are inferior to local debugging tools. These two issues lead to frustrations and challenges that were eventually overcome with patience and diligence.

## Maddie Eckhart

My contributions to the project revolved around two major components: project management and user interface design. In the beginning of last fall, I took on the position of project manager for the team, that way we wouldn’t have any confusion as to who scheduled our meetings. My responsibilities included scheduling weekly meetings with the team, scheduling biweekly meetings with our advisor, sending out reminders for each meeting, keeping detailed meeting notes and keeping track of action items. My other major contribution to the project was that of user interface designer. I focused a lot of the branding of BetterRead – coming up with the name, the color scheme, and how we wanted to bring together both vision impaired and seeing communities. For the logo, I wanted it to be clean and simple and incorporate braille in some way. The final result was a combination of the initials of BetterRead, ‘BR’, and the braille letters for B and R inside of them. Another one of my responsibilities was to design the poster. I planned out the position, font, and color scheme of the different sections, put together charts, and collected feedback from teammates and advisor.  

After the development of our project, I think some of the skills I identified in my initial skills assessment came in handy while others did not. Since our project is web-based, my experience with mobile accessibility was not used much. I did, however, learn more about web accessibility than I ever have before. Learning about how the website’s DOM contains all the information to read out the page, what information needs to be read, and how to pick apart the DOM to find the contents was extremely interesting and useful when putting together the charts for the poster. My experience with user interface design actually came in very handy and I was able to use my skills and build upon my knowledge. I learned new programs like Adobe Illustrator to create the logo and Adobe Photoshop to create the poster. I had never created a logo from scratch for a real project/brand before, so it was really rewarding to create one and get positive feedback on it. Expanding my knowledge of practical design tools and concepts for BetterRead was extremely rewarding and I know that what I learned in developing this project will be utilized in the future.
